Draft for FWE chapter 1 (#6587)
dart-lang/site-www: src/content/get-started/ch1-hello-world.md

---
title: Your First Dart Program
description: Create, run, and make your first change to a Dart command-line program.
---

Welcome to Dart. This chapter starts simple, but moves fast. First, it ensures
your setup is complete, and then guides you through creating your first Dart
program.

Setup: Make sure you have installed Dart and reviwed the overview page.

## Task 1: Confirm Your Dart Setup

> First, make sure Dart is ready to go on your system by following these steps.

Author: Definitely going to be some tweaks when we implement the updated formatting. I'm trying to write the guides so they are readable as is. That way, if the drafts all finish early, we can use them in that format depending on how we want to release.

Open your terminal (or command prompt).

Run the following command to check your Dart SDK version:

```bash
dart --version
```

You should see output similar to this (the version numbers might be different):

```bash
Dart SDK version: 3.7.2 (stable) (Tue Mar 11 04:27:50 2025 -0700) on "linux_x64"
```

If you see an error like "command not found," refer to the Dart
installation guide to set up your environment.

## Task 2: Create a New Dart Project

Now, create your first Dart command-line application.

> In your terminal, create a new directory called "wikipedia" to hold your

Reviewer: ooooohh, yes, I agree. Creating an example called "wikipedia" seems questionable.

> In your terminal, create a new directory called "wikipedia" to hold your

Reviewer 2: yeah, thats a good thought. The name doesn't matter, so we can call it something like "wiki-dart"? "dartpedia"?  "cli-wiki-article-search"? Any name that alludes to what it does, even vaguely, is fine with me.

> In your terminal, create a new directory called "wikipedia" to hold your

Author: Thanks for calling this out @antfitch. Updated to dartpedia per the teams internal survey.

## Task 4: Make Your First Code Change

Next, modify the code that generated `Hello world: 42!`.

Open the `bin/cli.dart` file in your editor.

The `bin/` directory is where your executable code lives. `cli.dart` is the
entry point of your application.

Inside, you'll see the `main` function. Every Dart program starts executing from
its `main` function.

Your `bin/cli.dart` should look like this:

```dart
import 'package:cli/cli.dart' as cli;

void main(List<String> arguments) {
  print('Hello world: ${cli.calculate()}!');
}
```

Simplify the output for now. Comment out the first line (you don't need
this import statement), and change the `print` statement to display a simple
greeting:

```dart
// import 'package:cli/cli.dart' as cli;

void main(List<String> arguments) {
  print('Hello, Dart!'); // Change this line
}
```

:::note
For now, comment out the `import 'package:cli/cli.dart'` line to avoid
an unused import warning. You will learn about this and fully remove the line
later.
:::

Run your program again:

```bash
dart run
```

You should now see:

```bash
Hello, Dart!
```

You've successfully modified and re-run your first Dart program!

> ## Review

Reviewer 3: Maybe it's overkill, but I love @sfshaza2's `what you'll learn` list that she puts before each recipe on the Flutter site. Can we do something similar? I'd consider adding a heading for it.

```
## What you'll learn

put the list here

## Prerequisites 

put list here

## Step X ...

put steps here
```

https://docs.flutter.dev/cookbook/testing/widget/tap-drag

Reviewer 3: Love the changes!

---
title: Your first Dart program
description: Create, run, and make your first change to a Dart command-line program.
---

Welcome to Dart. In this chapter, you'll ensure your setup is complete, and then
work through creating your first Dart program. This chapter starts simple, but
moves fast!

:::secondary What you'll learn

* Confirm your Dart SDK installation.
* Use `dart create` to generate a new command-line interface (CLI) project.
* Run your Dart program from the terminal using `dart run`.
* Identify the `main` function as the program's entry point.
* Make your first code change and see the updated output.

:::

## Prerequisites

Before you begin this chapter, ensure you have:

> * Installed the Dart SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Installed the Dart SDK](https://dart.dev/tools/sdk).
```

> * Reviewed the Dart overview page (if you're new to Dart).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Reviewed the [Dart overview page](https://dart.dev/overview) (if you're new to Dart).
```

    This command tells Dart to execute your program.

3.  You should see the following output:

    ```bash
    Building package executable... 
    Built cli:cli.
    Hello world: 42!
    ```

    Congratulations! You've successfully run your first Dart program!

## Task 4: Make your first code change

Next, modify the code that generated `Hello world: 42!`.

1.  Open the `bin/cli.dart` file in your editor.

    The `bin/` directory is where your executable code lives. `cli.dart` is the
    entry point of your application.

    Inside, you'll see the `main` function. Every Dart program starts executing from
    its `main` function.

2.  Your `bin/cli.dart` should look like this:

    ```dart
    import 'package:cli/cli.dart' as cli;

    void main(List<String> arguments) {
      print('Hello world: ${cli.calculate()}!');
    }
    ```

3.  Simplify the output for now. Comment out the first line (you don't need
    this import statement), and change the `print` statement to display a simple
    greeting:

    ```dart
    // import 'package:cli/cli.dart' as cli;

    void main(List<String> arguments) {
      print('Hello, Dart!'); // Change this line
    }
    ```

    :::note

>     For now, comment out the `import 'package:cli/cli.dart'` line to avoid

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    You commented out the `import 'package:cli/cli.dart'` line to avoid
```

>     an unused import warning. You will learn about this and fully remove the line

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    an unused import warning. You will learn more about this soon and then fully remove the line
```

    later.
    :::

> 4.  Save your file and run your program again:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4.  In the terminal, save your file and run your program again:
```

    ```bash
    dart run
    ```

> 5.  You should now see:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5.  Check to make sure that you see the following:
```
